So now that we finished
talking about processStream
and processInput, let's talk
about how to visualize and then
subsequently implement
the printPhrases method.
I've referenced printPhrases
a couple of times and kind
of gave you a foreshadowing
that it does some cool things.
But we'll really get a chance to
see how it works here shortly.
This is what the bulk of the
printPhrases method does.
We're going to walk through
this in more detail in just
a moment, and see how it works.
So the purpose of
printPhrases is
to display the phrases that
were associated with each
of the works of Shakespeare.
So as you can see
here, what happens
when you call printPhrases
is it's going to go through
and it's going to print out
each play, or each work,
by its title--
like The Tragedy of
Hamlet, Prince of Denmark,
or The Tragedy of Julius Caesar.
There's lots of tragedies,
of course, in Shakespeare--
although a bunch of
comedies as well.
And so for each of
the works, if there
were any phrases that
matched, then printPhrases
will print the
phrases that matched
that corresponding work,
that corresponding play.
So as you can see
here, of course,
there's lots of famous quotes
and lots of famous phrases
from Hamlet, like, "Neither
a borrower or a lender be,"
or, "Brevity is the soul of
wit," or, "To be, or not to be?
That is the questio," and
all the famous cliches
that people talk about when
they mention Shakespeare.
There are also, of
course, many great quotes
from The Tragedy
of Julius Caesar
like, "Beware the Ides of
March," or, "Et tu, Brute?"
And so on, and so forth.
So this particular
example will show
how we write the
code that prints out
the phrases associated with
each of the titles of each
of the works, or
each of the plays.
And this will give us a chance
to really talk about flatMap
and see just how cool
it is in practice.
So one of the things we're
going to see here is that--
here's sort of the
visualization of this.
So we're going to end up
taking in a list of list
of search results.
And printPhrases will
then convert this
into a map that associates
the phrases with the works
where they were found.
Now something to remember that
we talked about when we discuss
the PrintStream method-- and
this applied both for the OO
version and the functional
programming streams version.
Some of the lists of search
results in the list of list
of search results
may actually be empty
if there were no phrases that
matched a given input string--
a given a work of Shakespeare.
No real surprise there.
That's not a problem.
It's just a reality.
Here's what we're going to do.
We're first going to
convert this list of list
of search results into a stream
of lists of search results.
So now we have a stream
of list of search results.
And what we're going
to do at this point
is we're going to apply flatMap.
So flatMap takes a stream
of lists of search results
as input.
And it flattens the stream
of list of search results
into just a stream
of search results.
And you can kind
of think of what
flatMap is really doing here.
It's basically taking each of
the lists of search results,
and then taking
each of the elements
of the lists of
the search results
and just making a new
stream that basically
works by concatenating in each
of the lists of search results
together into a big
stream of search results.
Now the other thing
that flatMap does--
and it's not really clear that
it does this unless you really
read the documentation carefully
and play around a little bit--
flatMap will also
remove empty lists.
So if there's a list in
there that was empty,
then you'll end up with
nothing in the output stream.
So we'll talk a
bit more about this
when we talk about the
implementation of flatMat.
If you recall,
remember, flatMap is
one of those curious
intermediate operations
whose output stream
can have more, less,
or the same number of
elements as its input stream.
And of course, we
will have empty lists
if there's no phrases that match
within a work of Shakespeare
in an input string.
So what we get is
the output of flatMap
is a stream of non-empty
search results.
And what we're
going to do then is
we're going to take that stream
of non-empty search results
and we're going to
feed it into collect.
So this will be a
terminal operation.
As always, collect
will trigger all
these intermediate operations.
It'll trigger stream to
run to get to the source.
It'll trigger flatMap,
and so on, and so forth.
And then it'll go ahead and
use the groupingBy collector
to create a map
that groups phrases
which will be the values
under the works, namely,
the names of the plays--
the works of Shakespeare--
which are the keys in the map.
So names of works
are the keys, values
are the phrases that
appeared under those works--
or with the works
with those names.